README.md, before:

# Formula Blob

Formula Blob is a fast-paced, dynamic racing game built for the PICO-8 fantasy console. Players select their blob racer, strategize with boosts, and compete in thrilling races filled with surprises, animations, and celebrations.

## Features

### 🎮 Gameplay
- **Blob Selection:** Choose your racer with unique names and dynamic stats.
- **Boost Mechanics:** Strategically use boosts to gain an edge, but beware of overheating!
- **Race Odds:** Moneyline-style scoring system for risk/reward gameplay.
- **False Starts:** Randomized false starts add unpredictability to the countdown.

### 🎨 Visuals
- **Racetrack Background:** Immersive track visuals with added grit and texture.
- **Animated Blobs:** Unique animations for running, bobbing, and boosting states.
- **Start Screen Parade:** A lively, seamless blob parade to welcome players.

### 🎵 Audio
- **Dynamic Music:** Soundtrack changes based on game state for added excitement.
- **Sound Effects:** Boosts, false starts, and race results come alive with distinct audio cues.

### 🎉 Celebrations
- **Fireworks:** Celebrate victories with vibrant, animated fireworks.
- **Enhanced Result Screen:** Winning blobs take center stage with animations and crowns.

### 🛠️ Code Highlights
- **Helper Functions:** Simplified and reusable code for text alignment, blob rendering, and more.
- **Logging System:** Improved debugging with a `quick_log` table and toggled logging.

## Getting Started

### Requirements
- [PICO-8](https://www.lexaloffle.com/pico-8.php): The fantasy console required to run the game. *(Except for the web version!)*

There are three ways to play *Formula Blob*.

1. Download the cartridge png file and load it into PICO-8:  

<p align="center">
  <img src="images/formula-blob.p8.png" alt="Formula Blob Cart Image" width="410">
</p>

2. Play the browser version. **(Does not require PICO-8.)**
- Coming soon!

3. Download the .p8 file from this repo following these instructions:

### Installation
1. Download the `formula-blob.p8` cartridge file.
2. Open PICO-8 and load the cartridge:
   ```
   load formula-blob.p8
   ```
3. Run the game:
   ```
   run
   ```

## How to Play
1. **Select Your Blob:** Use the arrow keys to choose your racer and press `Z` to lock in.
2. **Boost Strategically:** Press `X` to boost during the race, but manage your boost meter to avoid overheating.
3. **Win the Race:** Cross the finish line first to claim victory and celebrate with fireworks!

## Development
Formula Blob was developed using the PICO-8 fantasy console, leveraging its unique constraints to create a polished and engaging experience. The game features modular code with helper functions for maintainability and future enhancements.

## Changelog
See the [changelog](./changelog.md) for a detailed list of updates and improvements.

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for details.

---

Enjoy the race and may the best blob win!

Commit message:

feature(dev blog): add references to dev blog
This commit adds links to the README and the index page of the site that
references the dev blog to allow for direct consumption.

README.md, after:

# Formula Blob

Formula Blob is a fast-paced, dynamic racing game built for the PICO-8 fantasy console. Players select their blob racer, strategize with boosts, and compete in thrilling races filled with surprises, animations, and celebrations.

## Features

### 🎮 Gameplay
- **Blob Selection:** Choose your racer with unique names and dynamic stats.
- **Boost Mechanics:** Strategically use boosts to gain an edge, but beware of overheating!
- **Race Odds:** Moneyline-style scoring system for risk/reward gameplay.
- **False Starts:** Randomized false starts add unpredictability to the countdown.

### 🎨 Visuals
- **Racetrack Background:** Immersive track visuals with added grit and texture.
- **Animated Blobs:** Unique animations for running, bobbing, and boosting states.
- **Start Screen Parade:** A lively, seamless blob parade to welcome players.

### 🎵 Audio
- **Dynamic Music:** Soundtrack changes based on game state for added excitement.
- **Sound Effects:** Boosts, false starts, and race results come alive with distinct audio cues.

### 🎉 Celebrations
- **Fireworks:** Celebrate victories with vibrant, animated fireworks.
- **Enhanced Result Screen:** Winning blobs take center stage with animations and crowns.

### 🛠️ Code Highlights
- **Helper Functions:** Simplified and reusable code for text alignment, blob rendering, and more.
- **Logging System:** Improved debugging with a `quick_log` table and toggled logging.

## Getting Started

### Requirements
- [PICO-8](https://www.lexaloffle.com/pico-8.php): The fantasy console required to run the game. *(Except for the web version!)*

There are three ways to play *Formula Blob*.

1. Play the browser version. **(Does not require PICO-8.)**
- [Play in Browser](https://geopet.github.io/formula-blob/) 

2. Download the cartridge png file and load it into PICO-8:  

<p align="center">
  <img src="images/formula-blob.p8.png" alt="Formula Blob Cart Image" width="410">
</p>

3. Download the .p8 file from this repo following these instructions:

### Installation
1. Download the `formula-blob.p8` cartridge file.
2. Open PICO-8 and load the cartridge:
   ```
   load formula-blob.p8
   ```
3. Run the game:
   ```
   run
   ```

## How to Play
1. **Select Your Blob:** Use the arrow keys to choose your racer and press `Z` to lock in.
2. **Boost Strategically:** Press `X` to boost during the race, but manage your boost meter to avoid overheating.
3. **Win the Race:** Cross the finish line first to claim victory and celebrate with fireworks!

## Development
Formula Blob was developed using the PICO-8 fantasy console, leveraging its unique constraints to create a polished and engaging experience. The game features modular code with helper functions for maintainability and future enhancements. [Read the Dev Blog](https://geopet.github.io/formula-blob/blog) to find out more!

## Changelog
See the [changelog](./changelog.md) for a detailed list of updates and improvements.

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for details.

---

Enjoy the race and may the best blob win!
