blog/2025-05-08-bringing-the-blobs-to-life.md, before:

# May 8, 2025: Bringing the Blobs to Life

Today was a monumental day for Blob Race! We focused on enhancing the visual and auditory experience of the game, making it more immersive and exciting for players.

Unique sprites were introduced for the blobs during the race. Each blob now has its own personality, making the race feel more alive and engaging. The locked-in state prominently displays the selected blob, adding a sense of ownership and anticipation for the player.

New sound effects were added for both player and opponent boosts. These audio cues not only enhance the gameplay but also provide valuable feedback to the player. The boost sound effects were carefully designed to match the intensity and excitement of the race.

We also improved logging to provide clearer and more concise messages, helping us debug and refine the game further. Unnecessary comments were removed to clean up the codebase, ensuring a more streamlined development process.

Balancing the visual and auditory elements was a challenge, as we aimed to ensure they complement each other without overwhelming the player. The day’s efforts have brought Blob Race closer to its vision of being a fun and dynamic racing game.

Stay tuned for more updates as we continue to refine and expand Blob Race!

Commit message:

chore(metadata): prep blog posts for jekyll
This commit updates the posts to have the proper metadata for jekyll.

blog/2025-05-08-bringing-the-blobs-to-life.md, after:

---
layout: blog
title: "Bringing the Blobs to Life"
date: 2025-05-08
---

# May 8, 2025: Bringing the Blobs to Life

Today was a monumental day for Blob Race! We focused on enhancing the visual and auditory experience of the game, making it more immersive and exciting for players.

Unique sprites were introduced for the blobs during the race. Each blob now has its own personality, making the race feel more alive and engaging. The locked-in state prominently displays the selected blob, adding a sense of ownership and anticipation for the player.

New sound effects were added for both player and opponent boosts. These audio cues not only enhance the gameplay but also provide valuable feedback to the player. The boost sound effects were carefully designed to match the intensity and excitement of the race.

We also improved logging to provide clearer and more concise messages, helping us debug and refine the game further. Unnecessary comments were removed to clean up the codebase, ensuring a more streamlined development process.

Balancing the visual and auditory elements was a challenge, as we aimed to ensure they complement each other without overwhelming the player. The day’s efforts have brought Blob Race closer to its vision of being a fun and dynamic racing game.

Stay tuned for more updates as we continue to refine and expand Blob Race!
